external_note_001
PRE-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS:
Other complications of lung transplant T86.818
Multifocal post-transplant bronchial stenoses

INDICATION: Obtain diagnosis and Therapeutic


PROCEDURE SUMMARY:
31622 Flexible videobronchoscopy
31638 Stent Revision
31641 Tissue/Tumor Destruction
31630 Dilation
31636 Bronchial Stent placement

POST-PROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS:
Same as pre-operative diagnoses
Existing LMS stent x 2, LUL stent, LLL stent appeared in good position, with
significant in-stent secretions
Moderate amount of granulation tissue, distal LMS just before LC2 where there is
a gap in her stents
RMS widely patent
BI stent in good position and widely patent
RUL could not be identified; possible that it is partially jailed by the BI
stent, possible that it has firmly fibrosed to obstruction
RML severe stenosis at its take-off, down to 1 mm
Successful revision of existing left-sided stents by clearance of in-stent
secretions
Successful placement of a 6 x 6 mm Atrium iCast stent in the RML bronchus
RUL bronchus could not be identified/recanalized

ANESTHESIA:
TIVA. See separate anesthesia provider documentation. This procedure was
performed using standard monitoring procedures in Vanderbilt's OR 28.

FINDINGS:
After adequate local and intravenous anesthesia, bronchoscopy was performed via
the existing tracheostomy tube with inner cannula removed. The distal trachea
appeared normal. Inspection of RIGHT bronchial tree to the segmental level
appeared abnormal: as noted above. Inspection of LEFT bronchial tree to the
segmental level appeared abnormal: as noted above. Moderate moderately thick
secretions were present throughout the large airways.

PROCEDURES:
First using the therapeutic scope, the left-sided stents were revised via
clearance of significant in-stent secretions which were largely obstructing the
lumen of her left-sided stents. Once the LMS was cleared, we switched to the
P-190 4 mm OD scope and inspected the LUL and LLL. LUL was partially stenosed by
granulation tissue at distal LMS just before LC2. LLL was widely patent
proximally, with some granulation at the distal aspect of the LLL stent.

Cryoablation was then performed at the granulation tissue in the distal LMS
using repeated freeze-thaw cycles of the 1.7 mm ERBE flexible cryprobe. At each
site, 3 freezes were performed for approximately 30 seconds; the tissue was
allowed to thaw between each freeze. These freeze-thaw cycles were performed at
a total of 2 near-overlapping sites to cover the area. We then moved to the
granulation in the LLL bronchus distal to the stent, where another 3 freeze/thaw
cycles were performed.

Next, we turned our attention to the right side. Using a Merit 6-7-8 x 20 mm
balloon, the RML was dilated to 6 mm with decent immediate result. We could
clearly identify the medial and lateral segments. Given this airway has
progressive stenosed over time, we elected to proceed with stent placement. An
Atrium iCast 6 mm x 16 mm stent was selected and deployed via its balloon
deployment catheter in good position. Presenting aspects of the stent
overhanging the distal BI were bent/flanged over RC2 with the end of the
flexible scope. Both RML segments could be visualized through the stent and were
patent.

Finally, we attempted to recover the RUL bronchus. There was a slight
indentation where the RUL bronchus should have been. This was probed with
flexible forceps and was firm and would not give. I could not be sure that this
is the remnant of the RUL or not. There were a few air bubbles coming around the
proximal aspect of the BI stent, suggesting the residual RUL might be partially
jailed. I gently pulled the edges of the BI stent down using flexible forceps in
the region where the RUL take-off should have been and could not identify
anything that looked like residual RUL. We therefore could not recanalize the
RUL. At my last bronchoscopy, we were only able to recovery two RUL segments,
both themselves stenosed, and the RUL bronchus itself was only 10 mm - not clear
that it would have been stent-able or that stent would have helped even if we
were able to recover it.


SPECIMENS: none


COMPLICATIONS: None.

EBL: Minimal, <5 ml

The patient was transported to the PACU in stable condition.